Prof. Paiella 
 
1.  Title of the project:  
Metasurface photodetectors for all-optical image processing  
2.  Required Student Backgrounds:  
Basic knowledge of photonics 
3.  Expected period of the project (typically one semester for MS project and at least one semester 
for MS Thesis):  
One semester OK, two preferred 
4.  Possibility of Extending to a Thesis: Yes 
5.  CV or some other specific information that you would like students with interest to send to you 
for screening candidates:  CV 
Description of the project: 
All imaging systems, including standard digital cameras, rely on photodetectors to convert incident 
light into electrical signals that are then processed to reconstruct an image.  We are investigating 
the integration of these devices with arrays of metallic or dielectric nanoparticles (metasurfaces), 
designed so that only light incident along a prescribed set of directions can be detected.  The 
resulting angle-sensitive photodetectors may enable the development of cameras with 
unprecedented size miniaturization, record large fields of view, and capable of performing basic 
image-processing functionalities (e.g., for contrast enhancement and edge detection) directly in the 
optical domain.  The project will involve full-wave electromagnetic simulations based on 
commercially available software to design the required nanoparticle arrays. 
 
Prof. Dal Negro 
 
1. "Physics-driven machine learning for magneto-electric metamaterials design" 
Background: CE, EE 
Expected period: 1 year total with possible extension 
Candidates must send me a CV 
 
2. "Intensity-based inverse scattering and lensless imaging with learning methods" 
Background: CE, EE 
Expected period: 1 year total with possible extension 
Candidates must send me a CV 
3. "Engineering multifunctional diffractive optics in the quantum regime" 
Background: EE 
Expected period: 1 year total with possible extension 
Candidates must send me a CV 
4. "Wave localization in number-theoretic landscapes" 
Background: EE, but also Math and Physics 
Expected period: 1 year total with possible extension 
Candidates must send me a CV 
5. "Lattice-based cryptography on optical quasicrystals" 
Background: EE, but also Math and Physics 
 
 
 
 
Expected period: 1 year total with possible extension 
Candidates must send me a CV 
 
Prof. Lei Tian 
1.  Title of the project: 
Development of Gen-2 imaging acquisition platform of Computational Miniature 
Mesoscope 
 
More details can be found here: 
Single-Shot 3D Widefield Fluorescence Imaging with a Computational Miniature Mesoscope 
Yujia Xue, Ian G. Davison, David A. Boas, Lei Tian 
Science Advances 21 OCT 2020: EABB7508 
¨C BU ENG news: Brain Imaging Scaled Down 
2.  Required Student Backgrounds (i.e CE, EE, any specific courses taken, etc): 
Hands on experience and/or interest in developing circuit and 3D printing. 
3.  Expected period of the project (typically one semester for MS project and at least one 
semester for MS Thesis) -- at least 1 semester 
4.  Possibility of Extending to a Thesis. --- depends on progress 
5.  CV or some other specific information that you would like students with interest to send to 
you for screening candidates.  --- please send a CV. 
 
